# Enum

Enum은 JS type 수준의 확장이 아닌 TS의 기능이다. 

Enum은 개발자가 named 상수를 정의할 수 있게 해준다.  
Enum을 사용하는 것은 document의 의도를 명확히 해줄 수 있고, 고유의 case 집핣을 생성할 수 있다.

TS는 numeric, string-based enum을 제공한다. 

## Numeric enums

```ts
enum Direction {
  Up = 1,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right
}
```
위의 코드는 Up이 1로 시작하는 enum이다. 아래의 멤버들은 처음의 값에서부터 자동으로 증가한다. 
Direction.Up의 값은 1이고, 
Direction.Down의 값은 2, Left는 3, Right는 4이다. 

아래와 같이 초기화안해도 된다. 이 경우에는 처음의 값(Up)이 0이고 이후는 1씩 증가한다. 
```ts
enum Direction {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right
}
```
enum 내부의 멤버들은 각각 고유의 값을 가지기 때문에, 크게 신경쓰지 않아도 된다. 

Enum을 사용하는것은 간단하다. enum의 프로퍼티로 member를 접근할 수 있고, enum의 이름을 사용해서 type을 정의할 수 있다. 

```ts
enum UserResponse {
  No = 0,
  Yes = 1
}
function respond(recipient: string, message: UserResponse): void {
  // ...
}
respond("Princess Caroline", UserResponse.Yes);
```

Numeric enums은 computed, constant 멤버로 믹스될 수 있다. 
초기화 없이 ;;;;;;;;;;;
Numeric enums can be mixed in computed and constant members (see below). The short story is, enums without initializers either need to be first, or have to come after numeric enums initialized with numeric constants or other constant enum members. 

즉, 아래의 코드는 허용되지 않는다. 

```ts
enum E {
  A = getSomeValue(),
  B
// Enum member must have initializer.
}
```

## String enums

String enums은 친숙한 컨셉인데, 
String enums are a similar concept, but have some subtle runtime differences as documented below. 

string enum은 각각의 멤버가 스트링 리터럴로 상수-초기화가 되거나, 다른 string enum member로 상수-초기화가 되어야 한다. 

```ts
enum Direction {
  Up = "UP",
  Down = "DOWN",
  Left = "LEFT",
  Right = "RIGHT"
}
```

String enum은 auto-incrementing 기능이 없지만, string enum은 "serialize"가 잘된다는 장점이 있다.  
numeric enum의 런타임 값을 읽을 때는, 그 값이 일반적인 숫자라서 그 자체가 의미를 갖지 않기 때문에 이해하기가 어렵다.  
string enum은 enum의 이름과 독립적으로 그 자체적으로 읽기 쉽고, 의미 있는 문자기 때문에 디버깅이 쉽다. 


## Heterogeneous enums

Technically enums can be mixed with string and numeric members, but it’s not clear why you would ever want to do so:

```ts
enum BooleanLikeHeterogeneousEnum {
  No = 0,
  Yes = "YES"
}
```

Unless you’re really trying to take advantage of JavaScript’s runtime behavior in a clever way, it’s advised that you don’t do this.

## Computed and constant members

Each enum member has a value associated with it which can be either constant or computed. An enum member is considered constant if:

It is the first member in the enum and it has no initializer, in which case it’s assigned the value 0:

// E.X is constant:
enum E {
X
}
It does not have an initializer and the preceding enum member was a numeric constant. In this case the value of the current enum member will be the value of the preceding enum member plus one.

// All enum members in 'E1' and 'E2' are constant.

enum E1 {
X,
Y,
Z
}

enum E2 {
A = 1,
B,
C
}
The enum member is initialized with a constant enum expression. A constant enum expression is a subset of TypeScript expressions that can be fully evaluated at compile time. An expression is a constant enum expression if it is:

a literal enum expression (basically a string literal or a numeric literal)
a reference to previously defined constant enum member (which can originate from a different enum)
a parenthesized constant enum expression
one of the +, -, ~ unary operators applied to constant enum expression
+, -, *, /, %, <<, >>, >>>, &, |, ^ binary operators with constant enum expressions as operands
It is a compile time error for constant enum expressions to be evaluated to NaN or Infinity.

In all other cases enum member is considered computed.

enum FileAccess {
  // constant members
  None,
  Read = 1 << 1,
  Write = 1 << 2,
  ReadWrite = Read | Write,
  // computed member
  G = "123".length
}

## Union enums and enum member types
There is a special subset of constant enum members that aren’t calculated: literal enum members. A literal enum member is a constant enum member with no initialized value, or with values that are initialized to

any string literal (e.g. "foo", "bar, "baz")
any numeric literal (e.g. 1, 100)
a unary minus applied to any numeric literal (e.g. -1, -100)
When all members in an enum have literal enum values, some special semantics come to play.

The first is that enum members also become types as well! For example, we can say that certain members can only have the value of an enum member:

enum ShapeKind {
  Circle,
  Square
}

interface Circle {
  kind: ShapeKind.Circle;
  radius: number;
}

interface Square {
  kind: ShapeKind.Square;
  sideLength: number;
}

let c: Circle = {
  kind: ShapeKind.Square,
Type 'ShapeKind.Square' is not assignable to type 'ShapeKind.Circle'.
  radius: 100
};
The other change is that enum types themselves effectively become a union of each enum member. With union enums, the type system is able to leverage the fact that it knows the exact set of values that exist in the enum itself. Because of that, TypeScript can catch bugs where we might be comparing values incorrectly. For example:

enum E {
  Foo,
  Bar
}

function f(x: E) {
  if (x !== E.Foo || x !== E.Bar) {
This condition will always return 'true' since the types 'E.Foo' and 'E.Bar' have no overlap.
    //
  }
}
In that example, we first checked whether x was not E.Foo. If that check succeeds, then our || will short-circuit, and the body of the ‘if’ will run. However, if the check didn’t succeed, then x can only be E.Foo, so it doesn’t make sense to see whether it’s equal to E.Bar.

## Enums at runtime

Enums are real objects that exist at runtime. For example, the following enum

enum E {
  X,
  Y,
  Z
}Try
can actually be passed around to functions

enum E {
  X,
  Y,
  Z
}

function f(obj: { X: number }) {
  return obj.X;
}

// Works, since 'E' has a property named 'X' which is a number.
f(E);Try

## Enums at compile time
Even though Enums are real objects that exist at runtime, the keyof keyword works differently than you might expect for typical objects. Instead, use keyof typeof to get a Type that represents all Enum keys as strings.

enum LogLevel {
  ERROR,
  WARN,
  INFO,
  DEBUG
}

/**
 * This is equivalent to:
 * type LogLevelStrings = 'ERROR' | 'WARN' | 'INFO' | 'DEBUG';
 */
type LogLevelStrings = keyof typeof LogLevel;

function printImportant(key: LogLevelStrings, message: string) {
  const num = LogLevel[key];
  if (num <= LogLevel.WARN) {
    console.log("Log level key is:", key);
    console.log("Log level value is:", num);
    console.log("Log level message is:", message);
  }
}
printImportant("ERROR", "This is a message");Try

## Reverse mappings
In addition to creating an object with property names for members, numeric enums members also get a reverse mapping from enum values to enum names. For example, in this example:

enum Enum {
  A
}

let a = Enum.A;
let nameOfA = Enum[a]; // "A"Try
TypeScript compiles this down to the following JavaScript:

"use strict";
var Enum;
(function (Enum) {
    Enum[Enum["A"] = 0] = "A";
})(Enum || (Enum = {}));
let a = Enum.A;
let nameOfA = Enum[a]; // "A"Try
In this generated code, an enum is compiled into an object that stores both forward (name -> value) and reverse (value -> name) mappings. References to other enum members are always emitted as property accesses and never inlined.

Keep in mind that string enum members do not get a reverse mapping generated at all.

## const enums
In most cases, enums are a perfectly valid solution. However sometimes requirements are tighter. To avoid paying the cost of extra generated code and additional indirection when accessing enum values, it’s possible to use const enums. Const enums are defined using the const modifier on our enums:

const enum Enum {
  A = 1,
  B = A * 2
}
Const enums can only use constant enum expressions and unlike regular enums they are completely removed during compilation. Const enum members are inlined at use sites. This is possible since const enums cannot have computed members.

const enum Direction {
  Up,
  Down,
  Left,
  Right
}

let directions = [
  Direction.Up,
  Direction.Down,
  Direction.Left,
  Direction.Right
];
in generated code will become

"use strict";
let directions = [
    0 /* Up */,
    1 /* Down */,
    2 /* Left */,
    3 /* Right */
];

## Ambient enums
Ambient enums are used to describe the shape of already existing enum types.

declare enum Enum {
  A = 1,
  B,
  C = 2
}

One important difference between ambient and non-ambient enums is that, in regular enums, members that don’t have an initializer will be considered constant if its preceding enum member is considered constant. In contrast, an ambient (and non-const) enum member that does not have initializer is always considered computed.